aroma	An aroma is a scent or smell. I love the aroma of coffee in the morning.--
beverage	A beverage is a drink. The waiter brought our beverages first. Then he brought our food.--
cluster	A cluster of things is a small group of them placed close together. She held a large cluster of grapes in her hand.--
combine	To combine is to join together to make a single thing or group. Mina combined peanut butter and jelly to make a sandwich.--
condensed	When a liquid is condensed, it is made thicker. One way to make a dessert thick and sweet is to use condensed milk.--
contemporary	When something is contemporary, it is related to the present time. Contemporary scientists have learned quite a bit about DNA.--
cultivate	To cultivate plants is to care for them and help them grow. A research company is cultivating new kinds of rice to aid poor countries.--
divine	When something is divine, it is related to gods. Legends say that music was given to men as a divine gift from the gods.--
humid	When it is humid, there is a lot of water in the air. It is very humid inside of a sauna.--
odor	An odor is a very distinct smell. He knew there was a leak when he noticed the strong odor of natural gas.--
palate	The palate is the top part of the mouth. You can touch your palate with your tongue.--
paradise	Paradise is the place or condition of happiness where things are perfect. My vacation in Hawaii was like being in paradise.--
plantation	A plantation is a big farm that only grows certain kinds of crops. In the 1800s, there were many cotton plantations in the southern US.--
rapid	When something is rapid, it moves or changes very quickly. His mother was surprised by her son's rapid growth.--
rate	A rate is the speed at which something happens. Grass tends to grow at a very slow rate.--
soothing	When something is soothing, it makes you calm or relaxed. The soothing music helped the baby fall asleep.--
subtle	When something is subtle, it is not easy to see or notice. The handsome man has a subtle smile.--
texture	The texture of something is the way its surface looks and feels. The texture of a rock found in the water is typically very smooth.--
toxic	When something is toxic, it is poisonous. Toxic things are very dangerous. Please check the label to see if the product is toxic.--
vary	To vary means to be different from another thing in size or amount. The heights of the people in my class vary by a large amount.--
accident	An accident is an unexpected undesirable event. She had to go to the hospital after she was in a serious car accident.--
admiral	An admiral is someone who controls many military ships. They won the sea battle because of the admiral's great leadership.--
arc	An arc is a curved shape. A rainbow has the shape of an arc.--
character	Your character is your personality. My sister's character is fun and very outgoing.--
conscience	Your conscience is your inner sense of what is right and wrong. I recycle everything I can, so my conscience is clear!--
fiery	If something is fiery, it is burning strongly. The fiery blaze burned all night long.--
flesh	Flesh is the skin, muscle and fat on your body. The zebra's flesh has black and white stripes.--
grapefruit	A grapefruit is a fruit similar to an orange, but bigger and not as sweet. Would you like a grapefruit with your breakfast?--
hay	Hay is dry grass used to feed animals or used as a covering. I need to buy some more hay for the horse to sleep on.--
horrified	If you are horrified, you are very shocked and feel upset. I was horrified when I read about the old lady who was attacked.--
kerosene	Kerosene is a type of oil. It is used in some lamps and stoves. Many people in poor countries cook on kerosene stoves.--
loop	A loop is a line made into the shape of a circle. He made a loop with the rope and placed it over the post.--
paddle	A paddle is a piece of wood or plastic that moves a boat across water. We need a paddle to help us move across the water.--
raft	A raft is a floating platform made from pieces of wood tied together. The man made a raft out of bamboo and floated out to sea.--
sour	When something is sour, it has a sharp and unpleasant taste. I don't like lemons because I think they are too sour.--
stake	A stake is a small, sharp piece of wood or metal that is put into the ground. We marked our property by placing stakes into the ground.--
steward	A steward is a person like a waiter who serves food on planes and ships. The steward is bringing some tea.--
string	String is a thin piece of fabric or rope. I found a large ball of string.--
thorn	A thorn is a sharp part of a plant. Be careful of the thorns when you pick the roses!--
wreck	To wreck something means to destroy or ruin it. The teenagers wrecked the house for no reason at all.--
admonish	To admonish someone is to tell them you disapprove of their behavior. The teacher admonished Mark because he was chewing gum in class.--
audible	If something is audible, then it is able to be heard. The sound of the drums was audible from miles away.--
awesome	If something or someone is awesome, they are impressive or frightening. The huge military plane was an awesome sight.--
beware	To beware means to be careful of something or someone that is dangerous. You should beware of driving fast on wet roads.--
brag	To brag means to talk of one's abilities or achievements in a proud way. He had strong muscles and bragged about it to the entire class.--
conscious	If someone is conscious of something, then they are aware of it. The new student was conscious of the other students staring at her.--
disagree	To disagree with someone means to have a different opinion from them. The lawyers disagreed about the best way to settle the case.--
echo	To echo means that a sound repeats itself because it bounced off an object. The child yelled over the canyon, and the wall echoed the sound.--
eventual	If something is eventual, it will happen at the end of a series of events. The constant training and planning led the team to an eventual victory.--
hint	A hint is information that suggests something will happen or is true. I quietly passed on a hint to my sister about the test.--
idiot	An idiot is a person who is not smart or who has done something silly. Because he got lost in the forest, the man felt like an idiot.--
immense	If something is immense, it is very large. An immense amount of money was needed to buy such a large boat.--
indirect	If something is indirect, then it is not the easiest or straightest way. He chose to take the most indirect route to the coast.--
option	An option is a choice between two or more things. The children were given the option of three houses to pick from.--
pastime	A pastime is an activity done for fun that you do often. In the US, baseball is considered the national pastime.--
perfect	If something is perfect, then it is without any mistakes. She got all the questions right, so her score was perfect.--
pinpoint	To pinpoint something means to locate it exactly. The navigation system in my car is able to pinpoint my exact location.--
switch	To switch means to change something to something else. Mom switched the TV station from the news to her favorite show.--
thorough	If something or someone is thorough, then they are complete in everyway. Tina did a thorough job of cleaning the stains out of the carpet.--
torment	To torment someone means to cause them to suffer on purpose. She tormented her little brother by taking his favorite toy.--
beak	A beak is the hard curved part of a bird's mouth. The bird used her beak to dig a small hole in the ground.--
damp	If something is damp, it is somewhat wet. My hair is still damp from my shower.--
disapprove	To disapprove of something is to think that it is wrong. Alex, disapproved of his son's behavior.--
except	You use except to talk about the only thing that a statement does not apply to. Everyone had fun on the trip except Jim, who felt ill the whole time.--
flight	A flight is an act of flying, often in an airplane. The airplane made a flight around the world.--
fond	When someone is fond of something, they like it. I am very fond of chocolate cake.--
immoral	When something or someone is immoral, they are evil or do bad things. Stealing money from one's mother is an immoral act.--
ivy	Ivy is a plant with long vines that grows upward typically on walls. The walls of the castle are covered with ivy.--
moan	To moan is to make a low sound when feeling pain or sadness. The sick man moaned from his bed.--
oblivious	If someone is oblivious of something, they are unaware of it. I was late to school because I was oblivious of the time.--
perish	To perish means to die, usually because of bad conditions or bad events. Many people perish in wars.--
pit	A pit is a big hole in the ground. Michael fell into the pit and needed some help to get out.--
rim	The rim is the outside edge of a round thing, like a cup or bottle. I put my lips to the rim of the bottle and took a drink.--
roost	A roost is a place where birds can land and rest or sleep. The family of doves made a roost at the top of the tree.--
slippery	If something is slippery, it is wet or smooth and causes people to slip. The repairman fell down on the floor because it was too slippery.--
soar	To soar means to fly high in the air. As the sun rose, two eagles soared through the sky.--
trivial	If something is trivial, it is not important or meaningful. Television is trivial, but learning to read is very important.--
typical	If something is typical, it is normal for a certain type of thing. Barking is typical behavior for dogs.--
utterly	If something is utterly a way, it is completely that way. When the sun was blocked by the moon, it was utterly dark outside.--
weep	To weep means to cry. My sister told me the dramatic movie would make me weep.--
awhile	If you do something awhile, you do it for a short time. Wait here awhile, and I'll bring some tea.--
cyberspace	Cyberspace is the imaginary place of the Internet where activities occur. I didn't receive your email. It probably got lost in cyberspace.--
edit	To edit means to correct a piece of writing so that it is suitable to be published. -She asked her brother to edit her paper before she submitted it to her teacher.--
essay	An essay is a short piece of writing on a certain subject. She had to write a two-page essay for her English class.--
evaluate	To evaluate something means to study it, so a decision can be made. Joe and Ken evaluated the plan and agreed that it would work.--
faint	To faint means to go unconscious and fall down. Carol fainted because she hadn't eaten in over a day.--
global	If something is global, it happens all around the world. Pollution is a global problem.--
gymnasium	A gymnasium is a building with equipment that you can use to get exercise. When I go to the gymnasium, I use the treadmill for 20 minutes.--
highlight	To highlight something means to mark it with a color so that it is easy to see I read my vocabulary list and highlighted the most difficult words.--
ignorant	If someone is ignorant about something, they have no knowledge about it. I'm a bit ignorant about his theories. Can you explain them to me?--
index	An index is a list of words at the end of a book that gives information. If you look in the index, you'll find the right page number.--
lecture	A lecture is a long, educational speech. His lecture on world hunger was very informative.--
moral	A moral is a message at the end of a story that teaches you something. At the end of the story, Mother explained the moral to the children.--
operate	To operate means to work or function. I'm sorry, but the trains are not operating today.--
private	If something is private, it is only used by one person or group. Don't look at my diary! It's private!--
recent	When something is recent, it happened a short time ago. I did not know what caused his recent behavior.--
resolution	A resolution is a personal decision. At New Year, I made a list of resolutions to help me have a better year.--
semester	A semester is a portion of a school year. Jack is in his second semester of college.--
typewritten	If something is typewritten, it is written on a computer or typewriter. This is an important, formal project and must be typewritten.--
weird	When something is weird, it is very strange. My best friend's dad is a bit weird.--
absolute	If something is absolute, it is total or complete. My presentation was an absolute disaster! It was terrible!--
alas	Alas is a word that people say when something bad happens. I looked everywhere for my purse, but alas, I couldn't find it.--
attentive	If you are attentive, you are careful and you pay attention. He is a good student because he is attentive to every detail on his work.--
cape	A cape is a large cloth that covers one's back and is tied around the neck. The superhero wore a long red cape.--
envision	To envision something means to imagine that it may happen. I can envision my mom's face when I give her this present!--
evenly	When something happens evenly, it happens at the same rate or level. The food was handed out evenly among the hungry people.--
folk	Folk are common or average people. I've invited all the folks from our street to a gathering at my place.--
melt	To melt means to turn from a solid to a liquid. The snowman that we made yesterday melted in the sun.--
patch	A patch is a part of a surface that is different in appearance from the rest. There was one small patch of grass in the sand-covered desert.--
pleasure	Pleasure is a feeling of happiness. The student smiled with pleasure when she received the prize.--
pop	A pop is a short, loud sound. I heard a loud pop, then my computer screen shattered.--
pudding	A pudding is a sweet dessert. Would you like some chocolate pudding and coffee for dessert?--
rail	A rail is a horizontal bar made of metal or wood. The cat was sitting on the rail of the fence.--
recipe	A recipe is a set of instructions to make food. The apple cake that you made is really tasty. Can I have the recipe, please?--
role	A role is the normal purpose or function of a person or thing. My role at work is to check the quality of the products.--
shrink	To shrink means to get smaller. If you stick to a healthy diet, your stomach will shrink!--
soak	To soak something means to make it very wet. You need to soak these beans overnight before you cook them.--
spark	A spark is a small, quick flash of fire. As he welded the two pieces of metal together, sparks flew everywhere.--
spirit	A spirit is someone's feelings and personality, but not a physical body part. He has a very outgoing spirit. He can make friends with anyone.--
suit	A suit is a set of clothes. It usually includes a jacket with pants ora skirt. I wore my new suit on my date with Melissa.--
account	An account with a bank is an arrangement to keep one's money there. After I paid for the new car, my bank account was nearly empty.--
architect	An architect is a person who designs buildings. The plans for building the new home were drawn by a famous architect.--
conceal	To conceal something means to hide it. You should conceal your money so no one can take it from you.--
crime	A crime is something bad that a person does that can be punished by law. Police quickly arrived at the scene of the crime.--
deed	A deed is a certificate that proves that someone owns something. When she bought the car, she was given a deed to show the car was hers.--
gratitude	Gratitude is a feeling of being thankful. The kids showed Aunt Tess much gratitude for visiting them.--
habitat	A habitat is the natural home of animals or plants. Frogs are often found in a wet habitat, such as near a lake, river, or pond.--
intervene	To intervene means to help stop a problem between two people or groups. The students argued until the teacher intervened.--
landmark	A landmark is an object that helps people find or remember a location. The tall tree was used as a landmark for people to find the road to the inn.--
legal	If something is legal, it is related to the law or allowed by the law. It was not legal for him to drive until he was eighteen years old.--
memorable	If something is memorable, then it is remembered for a special reason. The party was memorable, people were still talking about it years later.--
oblige	To oblige someone means to require them to do something. If I wanted to have playtime, I was obliged to clean my room once a week.--
offence	An offense is an action that breaks the law and requires punishment. He was put in jail for two days for the offense.--
proclaim	To proclaim something means to say it in public. The army general proclaimed that the war was won.--
rally	A rally is a large public meeting in order to support something. The school had a rally in the gym to support the basketball team.--
resolve	To resolve something means to find a solution. She resolved the problem with her children by giving them both a toy.--
resource	Resources are a person or country's money and materials that they can use. The poor man didn't have the resources to feed himself.--
sentence	A sentence is punishment given to someone who didn't follow the law. The sentence for stealing a car is much worse than for stealing candy.--
volunteer	To volunteer means to offer to do something for free. Many people volunteered to help the adults learn to read.--
witness	A witness is someone who sees or hears a crime or accident happen. The woman was the only witness of the horrible crime.--
access	Access is the right to enter or use something. The manager was the only person with access to the password.--
conduct	Conduct is the way that someone acts. She was punished for her bad conduct.--
constant	When an event or action is constant, it happens a lot or all the time. The television at home is in constant use.--
crack	A crack is a narrow space between the parts of something broken. The old window was covered with cracks.--
device	A device is an object or a machine. A thermometer is a device that tells temperature.--
enclose	To enclose something is to contain it. The cows in the field were enclosed by a fence.--
grip	To grip something is to hold it very tightly. I was scared, so I gripped my older sister's hand.--
halt	To halt is to stop moving. The criminal halted when he saw the police coming.--
impending	If something is impending, it is going to happen soon. The student was nervous about his impending test.--
influence	To influence someone or something is to have an effect over them. My friend influenced my decision to attend Terrance University.--
law	A law is a rule made by the legislative body. The students learned about different laws during social studies class.--
mode	A mode is a setting or condition on a machine. Mother turned the 7V to quiet mode while she talked on the phone.--
perspire	To perspire means to sweat. I usually perspire a lot when I am at practice.--
replace	To replace something is to put it in the place of something else. I replaced the tire on my car because it was flat.--
snap	To snap something means to break it suddenly, which causes a loud noise. I took the stick and snapped it with my hands.--
sly	If a person or animal is sly, they are sneaky or good at tricking people. The sly fox stole the eggs from the nest.--
tend	To tend to do something is to be likely to do it or to do it often. My mom tends to buy me the perfect gift each Christmas.--
valid	When something is valid, it is correct or based on good reasoning. The expert's opinion on the subject was more valid than others.--
version	A version is an account of something that differs slightly from the original. She read the students British version of the Chinese fairy tale.--
whatsoever	You use whatsoever after a noun to emphasize that there is nothing of that thing. The boy had no idea whatsoever how to solve the story problem.--
alongside	If something is alongside another thing, then it is next to it. We work alongside each other in the office.--
appetite	Your appetite is your hunger for food. Tom has a big appetite. He eats all the time.--
assist	Your appetite is your hunger for food. Tom has a big appetite. He eats all the time.--
breeze	A breeze is a soft wind. The breeze caused the leaves to fall off the tree.--
defy	To defy someone is to work against them or refuse to do what they say. The students got into trouble for defying their teacher's rules.--
display	To display something is to show it, especially by putting it in a certain place. The museum displayed many wonderful paintings.--
efficient	If something or someone is efficient, they do not waste energy. My car is very efficient. I rarely have to buy gas.--
feeble	If someone is feeble, they are small or weak. The boy was too feeble to carry the object very far.--
forgive	To forgive someone is to stop being angry with them. Sandra forgave Peter after he said he was sorry.--
lively	If someone is lively, they have a lot of energy. Jennifer is very lively: she's always running and playing.--
majestic	If something is majestic, it is large and beautiful. The rich people lived in a big, majestic house.--
nor	You use nor to connect two negative ideas. I eat neither apples nor oranges. I don't like either one.--
outraged	If someone is outraged, they are very angry. My father was outraged when he saw that I had crashed his car.--
pessimistic	If someone is pessimistic, they believe that the worst will happen. John is pessimistic. He always thinks something bad will happen.--
rumor	A rumor is something people talk about even though it may not be true. Kevin was spreading rumors about Marcia to everyone.--
slap	To slap someone means to hit them with the palm of the hand. Out of anger, Helen slapped Eunice on the face.--
smash	To smash something is to break it into many small pieces. Jacob smashed the window with a rock.--
subject	A subject is the topic that is being discussed or taught. The subject of Marco's speech was the economy.--
wage	A wage is the money that a person gets for doing a job. The wages I receive from my job are really great!--
whereas	You use whereas to show how two things are different. My sister loves horror movies, whereas I prefer comedies.--
animate	When something is animate, it has life. Rocks and machines are not animate things.--
classify	To classify things is to put them into groups based on their type. The biologist classified the plant as a completely new species.--
concede	To concede is to admit that something is true against your wish. The student conceded that he had cheated on the test.--
concept	A concept is an idea about something. I learned some concepts of molecules before working in the science lab.--
construct	To construct something means to make or build it. The men used wood and metal to construct a house.--
decade	A decade is a period often years. She celebrated her three decades of work with the company.--
diagram	A diagram is a simple drawing that explains what something is or how it works. By following the diagram, I was able to put the desk together.--
ferry	A ferry is a boat that carries passengers over short distances. The ferry took the people across the lake.--
handy	If something is handy, it is useful. An eraser is handy if you make a lot of mistakes.--
isolate	To isolate is to separate one person or thing from a group. The teacher isolated the bad child from the class before talking with her.--
longing	A longing is a strong feeling of wanting. Since he skipped breakfast, he had a longing for food all morning.--
numerous	If something is numerous, there are many of those things. It was hard to drive fast since there were numerous holes in the road.--
particle	A particle is a very small piece of something. The bottles of wine were covered in a layer of dust particles.--
plea	A plea is a request that is urgent or emotional. The poor, hungry man made a plea for food.--
refrain	To refrain from something is to avoid doing it. The doctor asked Mary to refrain from eating fast food as part of her diet.--
review	A review of something is a formal inspection of it by people in authority. The government ordered a careful review of the economic situation.--
sophisticated	If someone is sophisticated, they know many things about the world. Jake is one of the most sophisticated persons I've ever met.--
surrender	To surrender something is to give it up. The thief surrendered the money to the police when he was caught.--
upright	If something is upright, it is standing up straight. Meerkats can't walk like humans, but they can stand upright.--
worthwhile	If something is worthwhile, it is important or useful. On his visit to Canada, he realized studying English was worthwhile.--
alliance	An alliance is a group of people who work together. The junior executives formed an alliance with each other.--
applause	Applause is the noise made when people clap hands to show approval. At the end of his speech, everyone gave applause.--
armed	If you are armed, you are carrying a weapon. The robber was armed with a gun.--
authoritative	If something is authoritative, it uses the best information available. This book is an authoritative source on Ancient Egypt's Queen Nefertiti.--
ceremony	A ceremony is an event that happens on special occasions. Tom and Amy's marriage ceremony is in June.--
culture	Culture is the music, art, and writings of a certain place or group of people. Ancient Mexican culture is renowned for its architecture.--
defense	A defense is something that is done to protect another thing. The airforce works in defense of its country.--
detail	A detail is a small piece of information. Jane told Ben all the details of her trip to China.--
diverse	When a group of things is diverse, it is made up of a wide variety of things. Big cities have diverse populations with people of different races and ages.--
enchant	To enchant someone is to make them feel very interested or happy. The beautiful woman enchanted everybody in the room.--
equip	To equip someone is to give them the things needed to do something. Steve was equipped with the tools needed to do the job.--
exception	An exception is someone or something not conforming to a rule. Most students thought the test was hard, but Tim was the exception.--
genre	A genre is a type of literature, art, or music characterized by its style. She is considered a master in the comedy genre.--
impact	An impact is the effect someone or something has on another. My grandmother had a great impact on my life.--
lure	To lure someone is to convince them to do something, by using a trick. The store lures people in with big signs that say "Sale!"--
obstacle	An obstacle is an object or a problem that stops you from doing something. Climbing over the giant rock was the biggest obstacle for the hikers.--
shelter	A shelter is a place to go that is safe from danger or bad weather. The frog took shelter from the storm in a nearby cave.--
sort	To sort means to separate things into different groups or classes. He sorted his clothes by colors and sizes.--
supply	To supply something means to give people what they need or want. The water heater supplied the house with warm water.--
vain	If people are vain, they are only concerned with how they look. Rebecca is so vain that she looks at herself in every mirror.--
alternative	An alternative is something that you can choose instead of your first choice. Her first plan to make extra money seemed weak, so she chose an alternative.--
avenue	An avenue is a road, often a large one with buildings on each side. Drive down this avenue and then turn left to go to the park.--
belly	The belly is the stomach of a person or animal. His belly was full because he ate a lot of food.--
bid	A bid to do something is an attempt to do it. He made a bid to become the university's next president.--
blow	To blow means to move air or move something through the air, as in the wind. The wind is blowing very hard today. We should stay inside.--
conflict	A conflict is a fight between different people or groups. The two nations had a conflict over which one could use the water in the river--
continent	A continent is one of the seven large areas of land on the Earth. Asia is the largest continent.--
current	A current is a steady and constant flow of air or water in a river or ocean. The ocean currents took the ship far off into the sea.--
disrespect	Disrespect is rudeness or a behavior that shows a lack of respect. He showed disrespect by arguing with his boss during a meeting.--
enthusiasm	Enthusiasm is a very strong good feeling about something. The crowd showed their enthusiasm for the soccer team by cheering loudly.--
harsh	When something is harsh, it is very unpleasant. The desert can be a very harsh environment.--
lean	To lean is to bend the body in a particular direction. The woman leaned against the counter because she was tired.--
meantime	The meantime is the time between two events. Ted began setting the table. In the meantime, I began preparing the food.--
mischief	Mischief is behavior that is meant to trick or cause trouble for people. Ben was up to mischief when he persuaded Ken to paint his face.--
muscle	Muscle is a mass of tissue attached to bone that helps you move. She went to the gym in order to make her muscles stronger.--
rescue	To rescue someone means to remove them from danger. The firefighter rescued the man from the burning building.--
succession	A succession is a number of things that follow one afterthe other. The student said the letters of the alphabet in succession.--
terrain	The terrain is the land and all of its physical features or parts. The terrain below was rocky and full of hills.--
timid	If someone is timid, they are afraid, shy, or nervous. The timid child hides behind her mother whenever she sees a stranger.--
violence	Violence is forceful action that is meant to injure or kill people. The boy hit his brother in an act of violence.--
affect	To affect someone or something is to have an influence over them. The student's poor attitude affected the other students in the class.--
autograph	An autograph is the written name of a famous person. Everybody wanted the movie star's autograph.--
bead	A bead is a drop of liquid. Beads of water collected outside the glass.--
brew	To brew coffee or tea means to pour hot water over it. Please brew a fresh pot of coffee.--
charm	To charm someone is to please them with your personality. Gail charmed everyone with her humorous stories.--
destiny	A destiny is all the things that happen or will happen to a person in their life. It was his destiny to become a great singer.--
horn	A horn is a device that makes a loud noise. The boy honked his horn while he rode his bicycle past the house.--
irritable	When someone is irritable, they become annoyed or angry very easily. She is irritable when she doesn't get enough sleep.--
lag	To lag behind is to move slowly behind other moving objects. The girl on rollerblades lagged behind the little girl on the bicycle.--
maximize	To maximize something means to make it the biggest in size or amount. Businesses try to maximize their profits.--
nightmare	A nightmare is a bad or scary dream. The girl was scared to go back to sleep because she had a nightmare.--
nutritious	When something is nutritious, it helps the body stay healthy. Mangoes are one of the most nutritious fruits in the world.--
protein	Protein is a substance that is necessary for the body to grow and be strong. Fish and beef are good sources of protein.--
signature	A signature is your name that you have written in your own way. I put my signature at the end of the letter.--
stuff	Stuff is a word used to refer to things without mentioning the things by name. We gave a lot of stuff to the charity.--
subconscious	When something is subconscious, it is done without thinking about it. Breathing is one of the subconscious things that the body does.--
van	Avan is a vehicle that is used for carrying things but is smaller than a truck. The delivery company uses large vans to deliver packages.--
warn	To warn someone is to make them know of possible danger in the future. The lifeguard warned people to stay away from the rough ocean.--
workout	A workout is an exercise routine that helps improve health. She doesn't do her workout on the weekends.--
zoom	To zoom is to move quickly. The cars zoomed along the road.--
brick	A brick is a block of hard clay that is used for building things, such as walls. There were several bricks scattered on the ground.--
crumble	To crumble means to break or fall apart into small pieces. The old house's walls crumbled into a pile of rock and wood.--
dough	Dough is a mixture of flour and water that becomes bread when baked. I made heart-shaped cookies from the dough.--
express	To express a feeling or idea means to show others how one thinks or feels. The nurse expressed her sympathy for the sick patient.--
fist	A fist is a hand with fingers bent in toward the palm. The bully made a fist and threatened to hit the small boy.--
flexible	If something is flexible, then it can bend easily without breaking. The tree branch was so flexible it could be bent into a circle and not break.--
flush	To flush means the face becomes red due to heat, illness, or emotion. After the long race, the runner's face was flushed.--
injure	To injure someone means to damage a part of their body. The car crash injured two people.--
lump	A lump is a small piece of something that is solid. The artist took a lump of clay and turned it into a beautiful pot.--
mixture	A mixture is something that is made by mixing other things together. The walls were built using a mixture of water, rock, and dirt.--
reconcile	To reconcile means to return to a friendly relationship. After arguing, the two friends were reconciled with each other.--
ruin	To ruin something means to harm or damage it greatly. Our walk in the park was ruined by the sudden rain.--
shatter	To shatter something means to break it suddenly into many tiny pieces. When the ball hit the window, the glass shattered.--
shutter	Shutters are wooden or metal covers in front of a window. Mr. Smith closed the shutters every night to make his bedroom dark.--
sift	To sift something means to remove all the large pieces. The baker sifted the flour into a large bowl.--
slight	If something is slight, then it is small or minor. There was only a slight change in the little boy's height.--
sparkle	To sparkle means to shine brightly with quick flashes of light. The stars sparkled in the winter night's sky.--
sprinkle	To sprinkle means to scatter something all over something else. He sprinkled the pasta with salt and black pepper.--
stale	If food is stale, then it is not fresh but dry, hard, and not good to eat. The cookies sat on the table so long that they became stale.--
utter	To utter a word or a sound means to say it. The lost boy was so scared that he could barely utter a single word.--
although	You use although to say that one thing is contrasted by another. Although she was late, her friends gave her a warm welcome.--
apply	To apply something means to put it on. She always applies makeup to her face before going outside.--
await	To await something means to wait for it. The players awaited the judge's decision.--
beloved	When something is beloved, it is very special and you like it very much. The boy took a nap next to his beloved cat.--
bury	To bury someone or something means to put them in the ground. They buried their grandfather under his favorite tree after he died.--
climate	A climate is the usual weather in a place. The climate in the desert is very hot.--
complain	When you complain, you say that you are unhappy about something. The workers complained that they were being treated unfairly.--
confuse	To confuse someone means to make them feel like they are unsure. The sign confused the traveler because it pointed in two directions.--
due	When something is due, it is expected to happen or be done at that time. The papers were due on the 19th.--
entire	When you talk about an entire thing, you are talking about the whole thing. He was so hungry that he ate the entire pizza by himself.--
establish	To establish something means to create it. He wanted to establish a club for people to help the Earth.--
furnace	A furnace is a place where heat is made. Mr. Jones came to fix the furnace.--
leash	A leash is a rope or chain that is used to lead an animal. A lot of dogs must wear a leash to keep them from running away.--
mature	To mature means to grow up to become an adult. When they matured, they became as tall as their parents.--
measure	To measure something means to find out the quality, value, or effect of it. The scientists carefully measured the amount of chemicals in the tubes.--
midst	The midst of something is the middle of it. She was in the midst of cleaning when the telephone rang.--
misery	Misery is extreme suffering. There was a lot of misery after Sam lost his dog.--
prior	When something happened prior to something else, it happened earlier. Ron had to wait since he arrived prior to the scheduled meeting time.--
research	Research is close and careful study to discover new things. Scientists did a lot of research on the subject of blood type.--
variety	A variety of something is a group of many different kinds of it. There are a variety of flowers at the shop.--
altogether	If something happens altogether, it happens completely. The company stopped using sugar altogether in its food.--
bind	To bind is to bring people together. The victims of the flood were bound by their need to help each other.--
bruise	A bruise is a dark mark caused by being hit by something. She got a bruise on her knee from falling down.--
custom	A custom is a way of doing things that has been the same for a long time. It is a custom that the bride and groom have the first dance.--
disobedient	When someone is disobedient, they do not follow the rules or instructions. The disobedient children didn't listen to their mother and had an accident.--
foresee	To foresee something is to know about it before it happens. The teacher didn't foresee any problems with her large class.--
glimpse	To glimpse something is to see it for a short time. She glimpsed outside the window as the plane was about to land.--
hoop	A hoop is a ring that is made of plastic, metal, or wood. The boys tried to toss the ball through the basketball hoop.--
misfortune	Misfortune is bad luck or an unlucky event. His family helped him when he encountered misfortune.--
negative	When something is negative, it is unpleasant or sad. She doesn't like to say negative things about her friends.--
per	Per is used to mean "each" when giving a price, size, or amount. It costs $8 per person to watch the baseball game.--
plead	To plead is to ask for something you want very badly. He pleaded for his parents to let him go to the soccer game.--
rip	To rip something means to pull it apart. She ripped the paper in half by accident.--
sake	The sake of something is the reason for doing it. The parents worked hard for their children's sake.--
scrape	To scrape something is to rub it very hard with something sharp. I accidentally scraped the paint off the side of the car.--
source	A source of something is the place that it comes from. The river was the source of drinking water for the village.--
stern	When somebody is stern, they are very serious. The stern teacher didn't allow the students to speak during class.--
stitch	To stitch is to use a needle and thread to join pieces of cloth together. My grandmother stitched the pieces together to make a big blanket.--
thump	A thump is the sound of a heavy object falling. They heard the thump when the bowling ball hit the floor.--
vehement	When somebody is vehement, they are angry and emotional. Gina was vehement when she found out that Liz was bad in school.--
civilization	A civilization is an organized group of humans that have culture and government Most early civilizations in Central America didn't use metal weapons.--
convenient	When something is convenient, it is easy to do and does not take a lot of work. The bus is a convenient way to get to school.--
den	A den is a living space for some types of animals, such as lions. The mother lion left her babies in the den.--
dew	Dew is the drops of water that form on the ground outside during the night. When we woke up, we saw that the grass was covered in dew.--
drastic	When something is drastic, it is extreme or major. She made a drastic decision to get her long hair cut short.--
exit	To exit means to leave. The students exited through the front door.--
flock	A flock is a group of animals, such as birds, sheep or goats. There was one black sheep in the entire flock.--
fold	To fold is to bend something like paper or cloth so that it takes up less space. I folded the paper and put it in my pocket.--
lid	A lid is a top for a box or container that can be removed. He lifted the lid of the box and revealed her present.--
loom	To loom is to seem very large and often scary. The ominous clouds loomed over the school.--
mighty	When something is mighty, it is strong and large. The mighty wrestler scared all who faced him.--
mushroom	A mushroom is a fungus with a round top. Some are used as food. The soup had fresh mushrooms in it.--
native	When something is native, it is originating in a certain place or area. Avocadoes are native fruits of Mexico.--
poison	Poison is a dangerous substance that causes illness or death. They used poison to get rid of the rats in their home.--
reed	Reeds are tall and skinny plants that grow in groups near water. The sun set behind the reeds of the lake's shore.--
shield	To shield something is to protect it. She shielded her eyes from the sun with sunglasses.--
stormy	Stormy describes something affected or characterized by storms. The golfers decided to go home because of the stormy weather.--
sway	To sway is to move slowly from side to side. She swayed while she listened to the music.--
urban	When something is urban, it is related to the city. Subways are an important form of urban transportation.--
wade	To wade is to walk in or pass through water. The child waded in the water at the beach.--
accent	An accent is a certain way of speaking that shows where a person is from. The new teacher's accent was clearly a German one.--
barber	A barber is a person whose job is to cut hair. My hair is getting much too long. I'd better go to the barber's shop.--
basement	A basement of a house or building is a room that is built underground. They turned their basement into a game room.--
blank	When something is blank, it does not have anything on it. She got a blank paper to draw on.--
blink	To blink means to shut the eyes and quickly open them again. I blinked many times so that my eyes could adjust to the bright light.--
choir	A choir is a group of people who sing together. He had choir practice every day after school.--
comic	When something is comic, it is funny. The comic actor was famous for his jokes.--
complicate	To complicate something means to make it harder than necessary. The bad weather complicated finishing the job quickly.--
decline	To decline an offer or invitation means to say no to it. She declined his offer to pay for her dinner.--
errand	An errand is a trip taken to do a specific activity. He couldn't go to practice because he had several errands to do.--
glove	A glove is a piece of clothing that covers your fingers and hand. When it gets cold, I always put on a pair of gloves.--
hermit	A hermit is one who lives alone and does not spend time with others. The hermit lived a simple life in a small cave in the forest.--
justly	If something is done justly, then it is fair. We justly decided to give the prize to him.--
leather	Leather is a material made from animal skin that is used to make clothing. He got a new leather jacket for his birthday.--
ponder	To ponder something is to think about it carefully. She sat in the park and pondered her problem.--
reserve	To reserve something means to keep it for a certain person or time. He reserved a table at the busy restaurant.--
script	A script is the words of a film or play. He read the script of the play three times.--
search	To search for something or someone means to look for them carefully. I searched the newspaper for a new job.--
slam	To slam is to close something hard. She slammed the book shut after she finished reading it.--
staircase	A staircase is a set of stairs found inside a building. The staircase leads directly into the kitchen.--
afflicted	Afflicted means to suffer physically or mentally. He was afflicted by pain in his right arm.--
aisle	An aisle is a space between two things that people use to walk. They were told to clear the aisle because the plane was about to land.--
atmosphere	The atmosphere is the air around the Earth where weather conditions form. Scientists worry that harmful substances are hurting the atmosphere.--
author	An author is a person who wrote a certain piece of writing. The author was hard at work on his next novel.--
breakdown	A breakdown is a failure to work correctly. Her car had a breakdown, and she wasn't sure howto fix it.--
cargo	Cargo is the items carried by a ship or airplane. The cargo of the ship got wet when it started raining.--
chapter	A chapter is a part of a book that usually has a number or a title. The first chapter of a book usually introduces the main character of a story.--
connect	To connect two things means to join them together. I connected the mouse to my laptop computer.--
etc.    Etc. is short for "etcetera." It is used to refer to other unspecified objects. She was going to bring treats to the party: cookies, muffins, cake, etc.--
flip	To flip means to press a switch quickly to turn it on or off. To turn on the lights, just flip this switch.--
idle	If you are idle, you are not doing anything. She read a book to keep from being idle.--
notify	To notify someone of something is to tell them about it. The teacher notified us about a change to our assignment.--
pea	Peas are a vegetable that is small, round and green. His favorite food was peas.--
raisin	A raisin is a dried grape. Raisins are one of my favorite snacks.--
retain	To retain something is to keep it. Even by the afternoon, the day had retained the morning's freshness.--
state	To state something means to say it in a definite way. The president stated his opinion about the world's health concerns.--
tray	A tray is a flat plate used to hold food. The waiter brought our food on a tray.--
unfortunate	If something is unfortunate, it is bad or unlucky. It was unfortunate that Dave's team lost, but he still had fun.--
vivid	When something is vivid, it is bright and colorful. The figures in the painting were vivid.--
vomit	To vomit means to have food come up from one's stomach. It is common for women to vomit when they are pregnant.--
betray	To betray someone means to treat them in a dishonest way. The man betrayed his country when he gave away national secrets.--
blast	A blast is a loud noise made by something that explodes. There was a loud blast when the police officer fired the gun.--
bracelet	A bracelet is a piece of jewelry that you wear around your wrist. My father gave me a pretty gold bracelet for my birthday.--
cease	To cease means to stop. After about an hour, the rain ceased, and a rainbow appeared.--
choke	To choke means to cough because you have difficulty breathing. There was a lot of smoke in the air, and it made me choke.--
civil	When an event is civil, it happens inside a country. The country was torn apart by a terrible civil war.--
comment	To comment means to say something that shows your personal opinion. Tom commented on the poor quality of the food.--
cross	To cross means to go from one side to the other side. We used his boat to cross to the other side of the lake.--
dent	A dent is damage caused by something heavy hitting something else. That blue car hit my car, and now there is a small dent in my car door.--
distrust	To distrust someone means to believe that they are not honest. Don't lend money to someone if you distrust them!--
fort	A fort is a small building that is specially built to defend an area from attack. When the army arrived, they built a big fort on the top of the hill.--
found	To found means to bring something into existence. The pastor founded his church in the countryside.--
lining	Lining is a piece of cloth that covers the inside of clothes. This jacket is very warm because it has a thick lining.--
mass	A mass is a large number of things of one type. We received a mass of letters this morning.--
pray	To pray means to talk to God. When people go to church, they pray for their families and friends.--
rife	If a place is rife with something bad, it is very common in that place. This part of the country is rife with disease.--
sole	When something is the sole thing, it is the only thing of a particular type. His sole purpose in life was to help others.--
sweep	If you sweep the floor, you clean it with a tool like a broom or a brush. There is a lot of dirt on the floor. Can you sweep it please?--
treachery	Treachery is a behavior in which a person betrays a country or a person. The man ran away to escape from the treachery of his wife.--
tuck	To tuck something means to put it somewhere so that it is neat or safe. He looked sloppy without his shirt being tucked into his pants.--
background	A background is a person's education, family, and experience. The new teacher had a background in science and math.--
bait	A background is a person's education, family, and experience. The new teacher had a background in science and math.--
chronicle	To chronicle something means to record an event or speech. The daily newspaper chronicles local and world events.--
copper	Copper is a red-brown metal often used in electric wire and pipes. Ancient hunters melted copper to make knives and spears.--
disease	A disease is an illness that causes specific problems. He had a disease that caused him to lose his hearing.--
folklore	Folklore is the collection of beliefs and stories of a culture. India's folklore has stories written in long poems about great warriors.--
infect	To infect someone means to give them an illness. The common cold infects hundreds of millions of people each year.--
itch	To itch means to rub the skin with your fingernails. The rough fabric in his shirt made the back of his neck itch.--
literature	Literature is books, plays, and poetry. Early American literature covers the poetry and stories from 1500 to 1800.--
millennium	A millennium is one thousand years. Stonehenge is believed to have been built about 5 millenniums ago.--
myth	A myth is a traditional story that explains a culture's history and beliefs. In Greece, there was a myth about a woman who had snakes for hair.--
promote	To promote someone means to raise them to a higher position or rank. After two years in the company, she was promoted to a manager.--
relate	To relate to something means to have a connection with it. A company's plan usually relates to how much profit it can make.--
religion	A religion is a belief in a god or gods. Their religion taught that people should forgive their enemies.--
sum	A sum is a specific amount of money. He calculated the numbers to see what the sum of his bills would be.--
teller	A teller is a person who works with a bank's customers. The teller at the bank helped Kelly put money into a savings account.--
trustworthy	If someone is trustworthy, they are honest and truthful. Mary is one of the most trustworthy people I've ever met.--
update	To update something means to make it more modern. We need to update the programs on our computers.--
vein	A vein is a tube in the body that carries blood toward the heart. The blue veins in my hand are just under my skin.--
venom	Venom is a poisonous substance that comes from animals or plants. A snake's venom can be used to cure the illnesses it creates.--
charity	Charity is an act of giving help, usually money, to those who need it. Thanks to his friends' charity, he had enough money to pay the rent.--
commerce	Commerce is the activity of buying and selling things. The new shopping mall increased the commerce in that section of town.--
condemn	To condemn someone means to give them a specific punishment. The judge condemned the criminal to five years in prison.--
cozy	If something is cozy, then it is comfortable, warm, and relaxing. The thick blanket made the bed very cozy.--
deplete	To deplete an amount of something means to use up all of it. All the driving he was doing was depleting his car's fuel supply.--
economy	An economy is the money and businesses of a country or region. The factory was good for the economy because it brought jobs to the area.--
empire	An empire is a large group of countries ruled by an emperor or empress. The emperor built roads to make travel easier throughout the empire.--
goods	Goods are anything that can be bought or sold. Shoes, hats, dresses and purses were the goods she wanted to buy.--
heed	To heed something means to obey or follow it. You should heed the advice on the sign and not drive so fast.--
hitchhike	To hitchhike means to travel by asking for rides from passing vehicles. She didn't have a car, so she hitchhiked several miles to her brother's home.--
mock	To mock someone means to tease them in a cruel way. The girls mocked Nancy because she was a new student.--
neutral	If someone is neutral, then they do not help either of the two fighting sides. The girl's friend remained neutral while the couple was arguing.--
persecute	To persecute means to treat someone badly. Dan felt persecuted because he was smaller than the other boys at school.--
pity	Pity is the feeling of sadness and kindness for those who are suffering. Because she had pity for the lost boy, she helped him find his parents.--
reduce	To reduce something means to make it less in size or number. When the store reduced its prices, people wanted to shop there.--
scribe	A scribe was a person whose job was to copy written works. In Ancient Egypt, scribes recorded important events.--
temper	A temper is someone's mood or a chance that they might get angry. She has a temper. Even the slightest mistakes make her angry.--
throne	A throne is the special chair in which a ruler sits. Nobody except the king and queen sat in the thrones in the great hall.--
unity	Unity is the state of people working together for a certain purpose. The project was finished early, thanks to the unity of the workers.--
victor	A victor is a group or person that wins in a contest. At the end of the game, the blue team was the victor.--
accurate	If something is accurate, it is completely correct. The story in the newspaper wasn't very accurate.--
analyze	To analyze something is to study it. The scientist will analyze the blood sample.--
asteroid	An asteroid is a giant rock from outer space. In 1908, a giant asteroid hit Siberia.--
controversy	A controversy is a dispute about something that affects many people. There has been a lot of controversy over the judge's decision.--
evolve	To evolve is to change over time. Many people think that humans evolved from animals.--
factor	A factor is something that has an effect on the way another thing happens. Smoking is the main factor that causes lung cancer.--
genetic	If something is genetic, it is related to the genes in one's body. The color of one's eyes is genetic.--
genome	A genome is the collection of all the genes in a living thing. Understanding the human genome may help cure many diseases.--
identical	To be identical is to be the same as someone or something else. James and John are identical twins.--
intellectual	An intellectual is a very smart person. We've always considered my Uncle Max the intellectual of the family.--
majority	A majority of something is almost all of the people orthings in that group. A majority of the people voted for Tom Smith in the election.--
mammal	A mammal is an animal that usually has hair and is not born from an egg. Even though it lives in the water, whales are actually mammals.--
multiply	To multiply is to increase in number. In the past year, the number of people at work multiplied by ten percent.--
offspring	Offspring are the children of a person or the babies of an animal. The dog's offspring had the same color of fur as she did.--
pesticide	A pesticide is a substance used to kill insects. The farmer sprayed his crops with a pesticide to keep bugs away.--
regulate	To regulate something is to control how it happens. The bank regulates how much money people can borrow from it.--
reinforce	To reinforce something is to make it stronger. Peter reinforced his opinion with information from a book.--
stricken	If one is stricken by a disease or problem, they are badly affected by it. Mike was stricken with a horrible illness.--
vast	If something is vast, it is very large. The wealthy man bought a vast amount of land in the countryside.--
vegetarian	A vegetarian is someone who does not eat any meat products. I became a vegetarian because I don't like the taste of meat.--
cherish	To cherish something means to hold it as very important. I cherish this trophy I won.--
compassion	Compassion is a feeling of understanding for someone who is hurt or suffering. The veterinarian had compassion for the sick little puppy.--
consent	Consent is permission to do something. Their mother gave the children consent to go outside and play.--
core	The core is the center of something. The rings of a tree start forming at its core.--
cunning	If someone is cunning, they are good at tricking people. The cunning child fooled his parents into thinking that he was kind.--
dizzy	If someone is dizzy, then they feel off balance as if they will fall down. The pregnant woman was dizzy after standing up too quickly.--
equilibrium	Equilibrium is the balance between different forces. The sudden drop in prices upset the equilibrium of the economy.--
foster	To foster a feeling or a skill means to help it develop. She helped foster a sense of calm in the little boy.--
grind	To grind something means to break it into very small pieces or powder. She wanted to grind the beans, so she could brew some coffee.--
growl	To growl means to make a deep, angry sound. The dog started to growl at the man walking by.--
moderation	Moderation is a state of being just enough but not too much. It is important to eat in moderation so that you can have a healthy body.--
predator	A predator is an animal that kills and eats other animals. The peregrine falcon is a predator that eats fish.--
sane	If someone is sane, they can think in a normal way. Oliver does not act like a sane person when he is angry.--
saucer	A saucer is a small round dish that you set a cup on. He placed the spoon on the saucer.--
snatch	To snatch something means to take it away with a quick motion. He was so hungry that he snatched an apple from a tree.--
stagger	To stagger means to move in an unsteady way and almost fall over. He staggered around after having too much to drink.--
stumble	To stumble means to put your foot down wrong so that you almost fall. He stumbled as he ran through the puddle.--
tense	If someone is tense, they are worried something bad might happen. After the phone call, Monica was very tense.--
tumble	To tumble means to fall, often in a rolling way. He lost his balance while snowboarding and tumbled to the ground.--
withhold	To withhold something is to not give it to someone. They withheld all information until she paid her fine.--
aircraft	An aircraft is a vehicle that flies in the sky, such as an airplane or helicopter. At the museum in the airport, you can see a lot of old aircraft.--
celebrity	A celebrity is someone who is famous. It was the highlight of the evening when the celebrities arrived.--
concrete	Concrete is a substance made from stones. The man covered the ground with concrete.--
decisive	If someone is decisive, they make decisions quickly. Our boss is very decisive, so it did not take long to organize the project.--
esteemed	If someone is esteemed, many people like or respect them. An esteemed scientist is coming to the university to talk about her discoveries.--
ethical	If something is ethical, it is the right thing to do. Many people believe that it is ethical to help others in need.--
extinct	If plants or animals are extinct, there are none left. There used to be dinosaurs all over the world, but now they are extinct.--
hardy	If a person or plant is hardy, it is strong and can live though difficult conditions. The farmer is a hardy man and doesn't mind working outside.--
institute	An institute is an organization that is interested in research or teaching. I am going to a lecture about ancient Rome at the Historical Institute.--
jealousy	Jealousy is a feeling of wanting something that somebody else has. She felt a lot of jealousy when she saw Luke with two girls.--
migrate	To migrate means to move from one place to another. Many birds migrate to warmer countries in the winter.--
nurture	To nurture something means to care for it as it grows or develops. Robert nurtured his plants, and that is why they grow so well.--
overhead	If something is overhead, it is located above you. As we sat on top of the hill, a plane flew overhead.--
principle	A principle is a belief about the correct way to behave. To maintain principles, it's vital to watch, listen, and speak carefully.--
rural	If a place is rural, it is in the countryside instead of the city. I want to live in a small house in a rural area.--
secluded	If a place is secluded, it is far away from any other place. There was a secluded bench in the park.--
species	A species is a type of plant or animal. There are 21 different species of butterfly in this forest.--
swamp	A swamp is a very wet area of land. There are lots of wild animals living in the swamp.--
traverse	To traverse means to move or travel through an area. The explorer traversed the desert alone on a camel.--
zoology	Zoology is a subject in which people study animals. Helen wants to study zoology because she has always liked animals.--
assumption	An assumption is something that you believe is true but cannot prove. I went to the cafeteria on the assumption that everyone would be there.--
barley	Barley is a grain that is used for animal feed, health food and beer. The farmer grew barley to feed his cows in the winter.--
beast	A beast is a large, dangerous animal. A lion is one of the fiercest beasts on Earth.--
colonel	A colonel is a military officer. James has been given a promotion in the army. He is now a colonel.--
contagious	If a disease is contagious, it is easily carried from one person to another. You must wear protective clothing because the patient's illness is contagious.--
corpse	A corpse is a dead body of a human. After the accident, the corpse was taken to the hospital.--
crisis	A crisis is a situation that is extremely stressful or dangerous. The airport workers' strike led to a crisis at the airport.--
cure	To cure means to cause an illness or injury to end or disappear. My dentist cured me of my toothache.--
deformed	If something is deformed, it is not shaped normally and may appear ugly. Even though the carrot was deformed, it was still safe to eat.--
discriminate	If something is deformed, it is not shaped normally and may appear ugly. Even though the carrot was deformed, it was still safe to eat.--
embassy	An embassy is where government officials work in a foreign country. If you lose your passport, you should contact the embassy.--
extinguish	To extinguish a fire means to make it stop. Michael extinguished the small fire with the hose.--
flint	Flint is a hard stone that people used to make weapons for hunting. There are a lot of flint tools in the museum.--
harass	To harass someone means to annoy or trouble them. The children harassed their mother because they wanted her attention.--
integrate	To integrate means to join, communicate and socialize. Governments want immigrants to integrate with the population.--
miniature	If something is miniature, it is very small. The boy enjoys playing with his miniature train set in his bedroom.--
nutrition	Nutrition is the process by which people use food to stay healthy. It is important to pay attention to nutrition if you want to be an athlete.--
promptly	If something happens promptly, it happens quickly or on time. Arrive promptly, or we won't have time to discuss everything.--
technician	A technician is a person who is skilled in electronic or mechanical work. I need to call the technician to help me with my computer.--
tropics	The tropics are the areas of land and sea close to the equator. People like to go to the tropics for vacation because it's warm.--
beneficial	If something is beneficial, it is good for you. Drinking milk everyday is beneficial to your bones.--
birthplace	A birthplace is a place where a person is born or where something started. China is the birthplace of chopsticks.--
capacity	The capacity of something is the amount of things that can be put in it. The parking lot has reached its full capacity.--
comparative	If something is comparative, it is being judged based on something else. The money that John has is comparative to most other adults.--
comprehensive	If something is comprehensive, it has all the details about something else. The teacher gave us a comprehensive review for the exam.--
conserve	To conserve something is to protect it from being ruined or used completely. The group worked to conserve the beauty of Europe's national parks.--
crucial	If something is crucial, it is extremely important to another thing. Clean air is crucial to the survival of humans, plants, and animals.--
cumulative	Cumulative describes an increase by adding one after another. The cumulative snowfall in the area is 50 centimeters per year.--
deposit	To deposit something is to put it into a place or another thing. 1 deposited the money into my bank account.--
distribute	To distribute something is to give it to a number of people. The teacher distributed crayons and markers to his students.--
equator	The equator is an imaginary line that splits the Earth into north and south. The equator crosses the northern part of South America.--
exotic	Exotic describes something unusual because it is from far away. Rebecca tried many exotic foods on her trip to Africa.--
federal	If something is federal, it comes from the government of a country. Sometimes federal laws are different from state laws.--
formation	A formation is the way that something is made. The formation of ice happens when water freezes.--
frequency	The frequency of something is the number of times that it happens. The frequency of rainstorms is very high, especially during the spring.--
objective	An objective is a goal or plan that someone has. My objective this week is to finish my homework by 7:30 every night.--
oxygen	Oxygen is a gas that all living things need to breathe. My aunt believes that the oxygen in the country is cleaner than in the city.--
rainforest	A rainforest is a forest that is in a place where it rains very often. The rainforest is home to many animals.--
strategy	A strategy is a plan for how to do something. The team came up with a strategy to win the game.--
wooded	If an area is wooded, it is covered with trees. Jim and Ben decided to go hiking in the wooded area by the river.--
avail	Avail is help. It is often used in the achievement of a goal. His studying was to no avail because he failed the test.--
expand	To expand is to become bigger in size. A balloon will expand as you blow air into it.--
define	To define means to clearly state, show, or explain what something is. People define success in many different ways.--
dread	To dread is to be afraid of something that could, or is going to, happen. I dread the idea that I will not get into college.--
fundamental	If something is fundamental, it is a basic part of something. The fundamental rules of basketball are easy.--
horrifying	If something is horrifying, it is frightening and very unpleasant. There was a horrifying car accident today.--
incredulous	If someone is incredulous about something, they do not believe that it is true. She was incredulous that monkeys could ever drive a car.--
linger	To linger is to last for a long time. The smell of fresh cookies lingered in the bakery.--
organism	An organism is a living thing, especially a very small one. We studied the organism on the microscope.--
paraphrase	To paraphrase is to make someone else's writing or speech shorter. The students were asked to paraphrase the story they just heard.--
plague	A plague is a serious disease that quickly spreads to many people. A plague in Europe killed millions of people.--
presently	If something happens presently, it is happening right now. Presently, our profits are good, but by next year we can do even better.--
random	If something is random, it happens without any pattern or reason. Young children often ask random questions.--
riot	A riot is a crowd that reacts to bad news by violently breaking laws. A riot broke out after the candidate lost the election.--
scribble	To scribble is to write something quickly without caring about how it looks. I scribbled a rough diagram of our plan and gave it to him.--
shrine	A shrine is a religious building built to honor a person, event, or god. He prayed at the shrine for an hour.--
solitude	Solitude is the state of being totally alone. John lives a life of solitude because he doesn't get along well with people.--
stark	If a contrast is stark, then the things being compared are utterly different. There is a stark contrast between their test scores.--
summon	To summon a person is to ask them to come to you. We summoned the doctor as soon as we noticed she was sick.--
worsen	To worsen is to get worse. The weather suddenly worsened, and we had to stay inside.--
automobile	An automobile is a car. The first automobiles were very different from the ones that exist today.--
candidate	A candidate is a person who is competing to win something such as a job. Alice is the best candidate for the job.--
confidential	If something is confidential, it must be kept secret. The information from the meeting is confidential.--
corporate	If something is corporate, it is related to a large business. Tom enjoys working in the corporate world.--
enhance	To enhance something is to make it better. Amy's blue shirt really enhances the color of her eyes.--
era	An era is a period of time that has something special about it. During the medieval era, knights wore protective armor.--
guideline	A guideline is a rule about how to do something. Before they began the project, the teacher gave them some guidelines.--
incorporate	To incorporate is to add something to another thing. I decided to incorporate a new ingredient into my cake recipe.--
interact	To interact is to talk to or do something with another person. The kids began to interact when the adults left the room.--
interval	An interval is the time between two things happening. Tony rested for brief intervals while he worked in the yard.--
mobile	If something is mobile, it can be moved easily. Mobile phones are popular because you can take them anywhere.--
modify	To modify something is to change it a little bit. I modified my outfit by adding a belt to it.--
parallel	If two things are parallel, they are the same distance away from each other. There are two yellow parallel lines dividing both sides of traffic.--
phenomenon	A phenomenon is something that can be seen as it is happening. I was amazed when I saw the phenomenon of shooting stars.--
pollute	To pollute means to make air, water, or land dirty, unclean, or foul. The careless factory polluted the river with chemicals.--
ridicule	To ridicule is to make fun of something in a mean way. The other students ridicule Peter's foreign accent.--
solar	If something is solar, it is related to the sun. Using solar energy is good for the environment.--
territory	A territory is a piece of land that belongs to a country but isn't a state. Gibraltar is a territory of Great Britain.--
tournament	A tournament is a competition, usually with many people participating. My dad is playing in a golf tournament tomorrow.--
transportation	Transportation is any type of vehicle that can carry people or things. 1 don't have a car, so my normal transportation is the train.--
bill	A bill is a statement of money owed for goods or a service. I have so many bills that I do not know how to pay for them all.--
boundary	A boundary is the line where one area of land stops, and another begins. This fence shows the boundary between our yard and yours.--
chaos	Chaos is a situation that is confusing and not ordered. His presentation was in chaos. I couldn't understand what he meant.--
consistent	If a person is consistent, they keep the same behavior or attitude. Sara comes in every day and is our most consistent worker.--
cyclone	A cyclone is a large storm with heavy rain and winds that spin in a circle. Hundreds of homes were damaged by the cyclone.--
doomed	If someone or something is doomed, they are going to fail or be destroyed. Since I spent all my money, my date with Jane is doomed.--
heir	An heir is a person who receives money or property of someone who dies. The princess was the heir to the king and queen's throne.--
martial	If something is martial, it is related to fighting or war. Karate is a martial art that began many years ago in Japan.--
organic	If food is organic, it is grown without adding chemicals to it. The organic carrots are more expensive, but they're better for you.--
poultry	Poultry is a bird, such as a chicken, that is used for meat and eggs. He raises poultry and sells their meat for extra money.--
scramble	To scramble is to move somewhere quickly and desperately. The hikers scrambled down the side of the hill.--
sergeant	A sergeant is a soldier or police officer of middle rank. He was promoted to sergeant after a year in the army.--
sheer	If you describe something as sheer, it is complete and very strong. 1 was impressed by her sheer dedication to jogging.--
stance	A stance is an attitude about an issue that someone states clearly. My stance is that using oil and gas is bad for the environment.--
telegraph	A telegraph is a method of sending electric messages on wires. In the 1900s, the telegraph was the fastest way to send a message.--
textile	Textile is cloth that has been woven or knitted. The blue textile was going to be used to make blouses.--
tornado	A tornado is a tube-shaped formation of air that spins very quickly. During a tornado, the safest place to be is underground.--
typhoon	A typhoon is a large tropical storm that moves in circles. Thousands of people lost electricity after a typhoon hit Australia.--
wail	To wail is to show sadness by crying loudly. The baby wailed because it was hungry.--
wardrobe	A wardrobe is the collection of all of a person's clothing. She bought some new clothes to expand her wardrobe.--
