alleviate	làm nhẹ bớt, làm đỡ, làm dịu-/ə'li:vieit/-the doctor gave him an injection to alleviate the pain
astrology	thuật chiêm tinh-/ə'strɒlədʒi/-Jack, who studies astrology, believes that the stars can predict the future.
differentiate	phân biệt-/difə'ren∫ieit/-to differentiate something from another
disrupt	gây hỗn loạn-/dis'rʌpt/-a crowd of protesters disrupted the meeting
equation	(toán học) phương trình sự đánh đồng; sự làm cho ngang nhau-/i'kweiʒn/-the equation of wealth with happiness can be dangerous
err	làm sai; sai lầm; phạm lỗi-/ɜ:[r]/-it's better to err on the side of tolerance when dealing with young offenders
erroneous	sai, sai lầm-/i'rəʊniəs/-erroneous conclusions
frantic	cuống cuồng; điên cuồng-/'fræηtik/-the child's parents were frantic when she did not return home on time
hull	thân tàu thủy, vỏ trái cây (đõ, hồ đào...)-/hʌl/-rice is gathered, cleaned and hulled before being sold
inadvertent	vô ý--/,inəd'vɜ:tənt/
improvise	ứng biến, làm ngay tại chỗ-/'imprəvaiz/-as we've not got the proper materials, we'll just have to improvise
latitude	vĩ độ, sự tự do (ứng xử, giữ ý kiến...)-/'lætitju:d/-they allow their children too much latitude, in my view they should be stricter
mariner	thủy thủ--/'mærinə[r]/
multitude	đám rất nhiều người, quần chúng-the voice of the multitude-/'mʌltitju:d/
nuisance	cái (điều, người) gây bực bội; cái (điều, người) khó chịu-/'nju:sns/-the noise was so loud that it was a nuisance to the neighbours
permanence	sự lâu dài, sự vĩnh cửu-/'pɜ:mənəns/-nothing threatens the permanence of the system
revolve	quay tròn, ngẫm nghĩ-revolve something in one's mind-/ri'vɒlv/
soothe	an ủi, làm dịu-soothe somebody's toothache-/su:ð/
stranded	bị mắc cạn (tàu)--/'strændid/
volatile	không ổn định, dễ bay hơi-a volatile political situation-/'vɒlətail/
arduous	gian khổ, gay go-/'ɑ:djʊəs/-an arduous task
attain	đạt, tới, đạt tới-attain to perfection-/ə'tein/
coexist	cùng tồn tại--/,kəʊig'zist/
conceive	nghĩ, quan niệm, thụ thai-I can't conceive how he did it-/kən'si:v/
dubious	nghi ngờ, đáng ngờ-I remain dubious about her motives-/'dju:bjəs/
ego	cái tôi, lòng tự trọng-losing the match made quite a dent in his ego-/'egəʊ/
elastic	co dãn, đàn hồi, dây chun-our plans are fairly elastic-/i'læstik/
endeavor	sự cố gắng-please make every endeavour to arrive punctually-/in'dəvə[r]/
engrave	khắc, trổ-/in'greiv/-memories of that terrible day are forever engraved on my mind
excavate	đào, khai quật-/'ekskəveit/-excavate a buried city
jagged	có mép sắc lởm chởm-/'dʒægid/-a piece of glass with a jagged edge
locale	cảnh dàn dựng-/ləʊ'ka:/-he is looking for a suitable locale for his new film
mold	khuôn đúc-they are all cast in a same (a similar) mould-/məʊld/
outright	cởi mở; thẳng thắn, ngay-/'aʊtrait/-be killed outright by a single gunshot
periphery	chu vi, ngoại vi-/pə'rifəri/-industrial development on the periphery of the town
plaster	vữa (trát tường), thạch cao-she broke her arm weeks ago and it's still in plaster-/'plɑ:stə[r]/
shovel	cái xẻng-/'∫ʌvl/-shovel up coal into the container
skeletal	[thuộc] bộ xương, như bộ xương-/'skelətl/-the skeletal bodies of starving people
terrestrial	[thuộc] đất-/tə'restriəl/-terrestrial species
vicious	xấu xa, hư hỏng-a vicious life-/'vi∫əs/
absurd	vô lý, lố bịch--
anemia	bệnh thiếu máu--
aristocracy	tầng lớp quý tộc--
aristocrat	[người] quý tộc--
attire	quần áo--
craze	mốt--
enlarge	mở--
excess	sự quá mức--
feminine	[thuộc] phụ nữ--
hallmark	dấu hiệu xác nhận phẩm chất--
pad	đệm--
predominant	nổi bật, chiếm ưu thế--
reputable	danh giá--
rouge	phấn hồng--
signify	biểu hiện--
strap	dây đeo--
tangle	rối tung--
vanity	tính kiêu căng--
vie	ganh đua--
vulgar	tầm thường--
attic	gác thượng--
chunk	khúc, tảng--
civic	[thuộc] công dân--
descent	sự xuống, nguồn gốc, dòng dõi--
din	tiếng om sòm--
dissatisfy	làm bất mãn--
fuss	sự ồn ào--
gourmet	người sành ăn; người sành rượu--
hence	sau đây, kể từ đây--
intrinsic	[thuộc] bản chất; bên trong--
kettle	cái ấm, cái siêu (để đun nước)--
ministry	(Mỹ department) bộ--
ordeal	sự thử thách--
outspoken	nói thẳng; thẳng thắn--
overwork	[bắt] làm quá sức--
particular	đặc biệt--
pungent	chua cay; cay độc (lời châm biếm...)--
snore	ngáy--
soundly	ngon giấc (ngủ)--
superintendent	viên giám sát--
alternate	xen kẽ--
apologetic	tạ lỗi, xin lỗi--
benign	tử tế, hòa nhã--
char	làm cháy đen--
clarify	làm sáng tỏ--
distress	nỗi đau khổ--
dogged	bền bỉ, ngoan cường--
ensue	sinh ra từ--
gasp	há hốc miệng--
negotiate	thương lượng--
overdose	liều quá cao--
persuasion	sự thuyết phục--
relay	ca làm việc, tiếp âm--
reluctance	sự miễn cưỡng--
restate	phát biểu lại--
sesame	cây vừng--
sip	nhấm nháp--
verge	gần như, bờ  cỏ--
wary	thận trọng--
waver	nao núng--
ashore	trên bờ--
contradict	trái lại--
counterpart	người đồng nhiệm--
devoid	không có cái gì--
diverge	rẽ theo hướng khác nhau--
elude	trốn tránh--
embryo	phôi--
fend	chống lại--
fictitious	hư cấu--
gazette	báo--
homogeneous	tính đồng nhất--
obstruct	tắc nghẽn--
plunge	nhúng, thọc--
prolong	kéo dài--
publicize	quảng cáo--
sparse	thưa thớt, lơ thơ--
surplus	thặng dư--
theorize	tạo ra lý thuyết về--
verify	thẩm tra--
vigorous	mạnh mẽ--
altar	bàn thờ--
arthritis	viêm khớp--
botany	thực vật học--
credible	đáng tin--
deceased	qua đời--
deception	sự dối trá--
decipher	đọc ra, giải (mã)--
dung	phân thú vật--
dusk	lúc chạng vạng--
gratify	làm hài lòng--
hone	mài bằng đá mài--
mash	nghiền--
ornate	trang trí công phu--
pneumonia	viêm phổi--
psychic	[thuộc] tâm lý--
psychotic	loạn tâm thần--
scope	phạm vi--
sinister	xúi quẩy, độc địa--
strife	sự xung đột--
therapeutic	điều trị--
congested	nghẹt, chật cứng--
courier	người đưa thư--
deform	làm biến dạng--
etiquette	nghi thức--
exclusive	độc quyền--
freight	chuyên chở--
garment	quần áo bề ngoài--
insomnia	chứng mất ngủ--
intuitive	trực giác--
liable	có khả năng--
obsess	ám ảnh--
overboard	[rơi] ra khỏi tàu--
premium	tiền trả thêm, cao cấp--
privilege	đặc quyền--
propel	đẩy--
socialize	hòa nhập, xã hội hóa--
suppress	dẹp tan--
tram	xe điện--
unsettle	làm bối rối, lo âu--
warp	cong, vênh, lệch lạc--
artery	động mạch, đường giao thông chính--
deterioration	sự xấu đi--
elusive	khó nắm bắt--
forage	đi săn, đi tìm kiếm thức ăn--
impede	cản trở--
induce	thuyết phục, xui khiến--
inseparable	không thể tách rời--
invalid	vô căn cứ, vô giá trị--
magnify	phóng to, phóng đại--
mainstream	xu hướng chủ đạo--
microbe	vi sinh vật--
negligible	không đáng kể--
paralysis	(y học) chứng liệt--
pest	vật gây hại--
prevail	thịnh hành, phổ biến--
respiration	sự hô hấp--
rupture	sự rách, vỡ, thủng--
savage	dã man, man rợ--
stun	làm sững sờ--
susceptible	dễ xúc cảm--
accumulate	chồng chất, tích lũy--
aerial	anten, dây trời--
apparatus	dụng cụ--
avalanche	tuyết lở--
consistency	tính kiên định--
convection	sự đối lưu--
discharge	đổ ra, tuôn ra, phóng ra--
intact	còn nguyên vẹn--
mortal	gây chết, phải chết--
omen	điềm báo--
overcast	đầy mây; u ám (trời)--
poignant	thống thiết, xót xa--
ranger	người gác rừng--
rubble	đá vụn, gạch vụn--
seclude	tách ra, tách biệt--
sideways	xoay ngang--
sob	khóc thổn thức--
sober	không say rượu--
speck	đốm, vết--
upbringing	sự chăm sóc dạy dỗ (trẻ em)--
advocate	To advocate a plan or idea is to support or suggest it in public. The group advocated increased spending on education and schools.--
authorize	To authorize something means to give permission for it. The mayor authorized the construction of a new statue in the park.--
civilian	A civilian is someone who is not in the military. It was Todd's job to keep civilians from entering the army facility.--
commodity	A commodity is something that can be bought or sold. Fran's uncle made most of his money trading commodities.--
conquest	A conquest is an event by which one country takes over another country. After the conquest, the people of the small city had no freedom.--
disclose	To disclose something means to tell it to someone else. John came home late, so he had to disclose his activities to his wife.--
dynamics	The dynamics of a situation are the way that parts of it affect each other. A good psychologist needs to know a lot about the dynamics of brain disorders.--
enroll	The dynamics of a situation are the way that parts of it affect each other. A good psychologist needs to know a lot about the dynamics of brain disorders.--
envious	When someone is envious, they want something that another person has. They were envious of their neighbor's front yard.--
euphoria	Euphoria is a feeling of extreme happiness. The athlete felt euphoria after he won the important game.--
festive	When something is festive, it is happy and related to a party or celebration. Dean's favorite part of Christmas is the festive clothing that people wear.--
jolly	When someone is jolly, they are cheerful and happy. My grandmother's jo lly attitude always made me smile.--
lentil	Lentils are very small beans that people cook and eat. Danni made her special soup with lentils when her husband was sick.--
marshal	To marshal a group means to assemble them in order. The students were marshaled outside and put into groups.--
morale	Morale is the amount of hope that people have during a difficult situation. To improve our family's morale, mom suggested going on a picnic.--
prophecy	A prophecy is a prediction about what will happen in the future. Some people believe that prophecies are actually true.--
sage	A sage is someone who is very wise. Hal always visited the local sage for help with love.--
senate	A senate is a part of the government in some countries. Everybody liked Caroline and chose her to speak for them in the senate.--
sentiment	A sentiment is an opinion based on your feelings. Tess told everyone at the table her sentiments about eating meat.--
unrest	Unrest is a state of anger about something among the people in a place.High taxes caused much of the unrest that led to the Revolutionary War.--
adorn	To adorn something means to make it more beautiful by decorating it. Small glass beads adorned the vase.--
bliss	Bliss is a state of complete happiness. Every time he sees his girlfriend, he feels a sense of bliss.--
butler	A butler is the most important male servant in a wealthy house. Whenever he needed something, he rang a bell, and the butler appeared.--
cramp	A cramp is a strong pain caused by a muscle after a lot of physical use. After the marathon, Jenny got a terrible cramp in her calf muscle.--
dilapidated	When a building is dilapidated, it is old and in bad condition. Paint peeled off of the old dilapidated apartment building.--
evoke	To evoke a memory or emotion means to make it occur. The picture evoked memories of when grandmother was a girl.--
farewell	A farewell is an instance of saying goodbye or a way to say it. She got on the plane after we said our farewells.--
faucet	A faucet is a device that controls the flow of a liquid or gas. Turn off the faucet when you are done brushing your teeth.--
filth	Filth is a large amount of dirt or dirty things that disgust you. There was tons of filth and trash on the shore of the river.--
flaw	A flaw is a mistake in something that causes it to be less effective or correct. We discovered a major flaw in the metal chain.--
grin	To grin means to smile broadly. That joke makes me grin every time I hear it.--
housekeeping	Housekeeping is the maintenance of a house or an establishment like a hotel. Housekeeping is not much fun, but it has to be done.--
mound	A mound of something is a large pile of it. There was a mound of clothes on the messy teenager's floor.--
numb	When a body part is numb, it does not have any feeling. After holding my hand under the icy water, my fingers went numb.--
reckless	When people are reckless, they act in an unsafe way.The reckless driver posed a threat to everyone else on the road.--
slate	Slate is a dark grey rock that can easily be split into layers. The roof of the church was made of slate.--
stool	A stool is a seat with legs but no support for a person's arms and back. I don't find stools very comfortable to sit on.--
testament	A testament to something shows that it exists or is true. The beautiful performance was a testament to the singer's natural talents.--
timber	Timber is wood that is used for building houses and making furniture. Trees in this area are grown specifically to be used for timber.--
valve	A valve is a device attached to a pipe that controls the flow of liquid or air. The mechanic removed the dirt to clear the engine valve.--
certify	chứng nhận--
collaborate	cộng tác--
compile	sưu tập, biên soạn--
counteract	chống lại, làm mất tác dụng--
curb	sự kiềm chế--
diagnose	chuẩn đoán--
enact	diễn, ban hành--
federation	liên bang--
gross	béo phì, tổng thu nhập--
humane	nhân đạo--
intolerable	không thể chịu nổi--
needy	túng thiếu--
onset	sự ập tới [mùa đông]--
pledge	lời cam kết--
prohibit	cấm--
rash	thiếu suy nghĩ, đột ngột--
render	hoàn lại, đưa ra--
smallpox	bệnh đậu mùa--
transmit	truyền--
vow	lời nguyền--
camouflage	sự ngụy trang--
contemplate	thưởng ngoạn, suy ngẫm--
contend	đấu tranh--
cot	giường cũi--
enlist	đăng ký--
frontier	biên giới--
handbook	sách chỉ nam--
hesitant	do dự, lưỡng lự--
lush	sum sê--
marrow	cốt tủy--
outfit	đồ trang bị; đồ nghề--
paw	chân (của thú có vuốt như mèo, chó...)--
quiver	sự rung--
splendid	rực rỡ; lộng lẫy; huy hoàng--
stray	đi lạc; lạc--
substantial	nhiều, đáng kể, vững chắc--
torch	đèn pin--
tract	vùng, miền, dải--
vigil	sự thức khuya--
weary	mệt mỏi, rã rời--
adhere	To adhere means to act in the way that a rule or agreement says is right. If the new employees wish to succeed, they must adhere to the boss's rules.--
administer	To administer means to take responsibility for organizing something.The teacher's assistant will administer the test.--
compassionate	When people are compassionate, they feel pity and sympathy for others. The compassionate nurse tried to make the sick man feel comfortable.--
contaminate	To contaminate something means to put dirty or harmful chemicals into it. The lake was contaminated when pollutants entered into the water.--
deficiency	A deficiency is a lack of something, especially something that is needed. Your snack has a deficiency of any real nutrients.--
epidemic	An epidemic is an outbreak of a disease that spreads quickly. It was difficult to stop the flu epidemic.--
hazard	A hazard is something that could be dangerous to a person's health or safety. Smoking cigarettes poses many health hazards.--
imperative	When something is imperative, it is extremely important and must be done.It was imperative for him to find a job.--
intestines	Intestines are tubes through which food passes after it leaves the stomach. Whatever you eat goes into your intestines.--
manifest	To manifest means to make something visible or obvious. The holiday season manifested joy in the children.--
metabolic	When something is metabolic, it relates to a person's or animal's metabolism. People who have a low metabolic rate will gain weight.--
overcrowded	When a place is overcrowded, it has too many people or things in it. The lobby was overcrowded with people.--
paramount	When something is paramount, it is more important than anything else. The safety o f passengers must be paramount when designing a car.--
practitioner	A practitioner is a doctor. She made an appointment with the practitioner to treat her cough.--
provision	The provision of something is the act of giving it to people in need or want. That department is responsible for the provision of emergency supplies.--
replenish	To replenish something means to make it full or complete again. We planted nearly one hundred seeds to replenish the garden after the fire.--
sterile	When something is sterile, it is completely clean and free from germs. The hospital room looked quite sterile.--
upgrade	To upgrade something means to improve it or make it more efficient. He upgraded to a real fancy car.--
viable	When something is viable, it is capable of doing what it is intended to do. Her method of solving the math problem seemed viable.--
voluntary	When something is voluntary, it is done by choice but is not required. Many people attended the voluntary boat safety class.--
amid	If something is amid something else, then it is in the middle of it. The bee was busily flying amid the flowers in the garden.--
backstage	If something happens backstage, it occurs behind a theater's stage. After the show, the director went backstage and thanked the actors.--
billionaire	A billionaire is someone who has at least one billion dollars. The sale of his inventions made the inventor a billionaire.--
brute	A brute is someone who behaves or looks like a violent animal. My older brother can act like a brute when he doesn't get his way.--
clumsy	If someone is clumsy, then they are awkward in handling things. The businessman was clumsy and dropped his work files.--
collide	To collide with something means to hit into it while moving. The two cars collided with each other because their drivers were not careful.--
culprit	A culprit is someone who did a crime or other bad deed. The police were still searching for the culprit from the robbery.--
evacuate	To evacuate means to leave a place of danger to a place of safety. During the flood, many families were evacuated to higher ground.--
flammable	If something is flammable, then it is able to catch on fire. Be careful with that blanket near the candle. It is extremely flammable.--
mob	A mob is a large crowd of people that often wants to cause violence. The copier was destroyed by a mob of angry workers.--
premature	If something is premature, then it is done too early or before the proper time. Mark's celebration was premature because the ball hadn't fallen in the hole.--
resent	To resent something means to have bad feelings about it. She resented the fact that she had never been able to play an instrument.--
satire	A satire is a work of art that uses humor and irony to make fun of something. This book is a satire of what life was like in the army.--
scrutiny	Scrutiny is the careful examination of something. A scientist should always practice scrutiny with their work.--
segregate	To segregate something means to place it in a group apart from other things. In gym class, the children were segregated into two groups: boys and girls.--
subject	To subject someone to something means to force them to do or experience it.The officers subjected everyone to a careful search before they left the plane.--
testify	To testify means to give evidence as a witness. The judge listened while the victim testified about the robbery.--
tumult	A tumult is a loud and confused noise made by a large crowd of people.She couldn't hear her friend over the tumult of the other excited guests.--
underestimate	To underestimate something or someone means to think they are not important. We lost the game because we underestimated the other team's skill.--
uproar	Uproar is loud noise caused by people who are very angry or upset. The fans made a great uproar when their team lost the game.--
accelerate	To accelerate means to increase in speed. When he stepped on the gas pedal, the motorcycle accelerated.--
anew	If you do something anew, you do it again and in a different way.Though he had failed his driving test, he decided to try it anew.--
defect	A defect is a part of something that is wrong or missing.All these bottles have a defect and must be sent back to the warehouse.--
dreary	If something is dreary, then it is dull, dark, and lifeless. After the fire, this section of forest is rather dreary.--
duplicate	To duplicate something means to copy it. She duplicated her friend's movements like she was in front of a mirror.--
electromagnetic	If something is electromagnetic, it is related to electricity and magnetic fields. Different colors of light come from different levels of electromagnetic energy.--
electron	An electron is a particle in all atoms that has a negative electric charge.The number of electrons in an atom determines the substance the atoms make.--
glide	To glide means to fly on extended wings with little or no effort. When the wind is blowing, birds can glide easily through the sky.--
ingenious	If someone is ingenious, then they are very smart. Charles was the only person ingenious enough to repair the plane's engines.--
innovation	An innovation is a product or an idea that is new or very original. Mrs. Johnson made a great innovation to the company's business plan.--
innovative	If something or someone is innovative, they can think in creative ways. Since Peter was so innovative, he was chosen to lead the science team.--
launch	To launch something means to make it go into motion.The boat launched from the dock and floated down the river.--
meteorological	If something is meteorological, it is concerned with the science of weather. The thunderstorm was so large that it became a great meteorological event.--
meteorology	Meteorology is the science that studies the weather.In order to understand the weather, you have to study meteorology.--
penetrate	To penetrate something means to enter into it. The knife easily penetrated the surface of the orange.--
propulsion	Propulsion is the force that moves something forward. The propulsion lifted the rocket into the sky.--
simulate	To simulate something means to copy its actions or characteristics. The French language teacher could simulate the accent of a French citizen.--
spur	To spur someone means to urge them into action. The coach's speech spurred her team into playing the best game of their lives.--
stimulate	To stimulate something means to cause or to increase activity in it. Doctors sometimes use electric shock to stimulate a patient's heartbeat.--
tenacious	If someone is tenacious, then they do not easily give up. I'm sure that he'll finish that difficult sale. He is very tenacious.--
beforehand	If something is done beforehand, then it is done in advance. He packed his luggage beforehand, so he was able to leave right away.--
centigrade	If a temperature is centigrade, it is scaled, so water freezes at 0° and boils at 100°. During the spring time, the temperature gets as warm as 26 degrees centigrade.--
chatter	To chatter means to talk quickly about unimportant things. The children chattered in the back of the classroom.--
concerto	A concerto is music for a solo instrument and played with an orchestra. The piano concerto has a section in which only the piano plays.--
condense	To condense a gas means to make it a liquid. The cool air made tiny drops of water condense on the tops of the grass.--
cove	A cove is a part of land where it curves inward around the sea. They hid the boat in a small cove on the south side o f the island.--
deteriorate	To deteriorate means to become steadily worse. The nation's economy continued to deteriorate despite the politicians' efforts.--
exterior	An exterior is the outside surface of something. The exterior of the nut was hard and woody, but the inside was soft and delicious.--
freeway	A freeway is a road with no stops where cars travel at high speeds. Once you get on the freeway, it only takes an hour to drive to my parent's farm.--
hearty	If someone or something is hearty, then they are loud and happy. The grandmother ended her story with a hearty laugh that pleased her grandchild.--
hospitable	If someone is hospitable, they are friendly to strangers. At dinner, Dad was very hospitable to my friends.--
manor	A manor is a large house with many rooms. The manor had over forty rooms in addition to beautiful gardens.--
monastery	A monastery is a building in which monks live.The monks at this monastery are famous for their bread and music.--
nursery	A nursery is a room where babies and children sleep, play, or are cared for. The children kissed their parents goodnight and went upstairs to the nursery.--
outstretched	If something is outstretched, then it is extended to its full length. The cat stood on its back legs with its front legs outstretched.--
parcel	A parcel is a package of things to be carried or mailed somewhere. The parcel looked like it had been stepped on by someone.--
profile	A profile is an outline of a face, usually as seen from the side. The drawing of Olivia's profile came out very well.--
vivacious	If someone is vivacious, they are talkative and cheerful. Everyone at the party was very vivacious and having a good time.--
winding	If something is winding, then it follows a twisting course. The winding river turned and looped around the bases o f the hills.--
zip	To zip something means to close it with a zipper. She zipped her backpack closed after putting her books inside it.--
airway	An airway is the passage by which air reaches a person's lungs.Since he was sick, mucus would occasionally get stuck in his airway.--
Almighty	The Almighty is a name for a god in a religion. Before eating, they thanked the Almighty for their food.--
advent	An advent is the arrival or beginning of an important person, thing, or event. During the advent of radio, very few programs actually played music.--
constellation	A constellation is a group of stars with a recognizable shape. That constellation in the shape of a square is named after a flying horse.--
definitive	If something is definitive, then it is the most official. This library has the definitive collection of books on ancient Egypt.--
equate	To equate one thing with another is to compare them and consider them very similar.She equated the man's messy appearance with a lack of responsibility.--
inhale	To inhale means to take air or a smell into the lungs. The camper inhaled the cool and fresh mountain air and felt relaxed.--
invoke	To invoke something is to mention it to support an argument or ask for help.Before going into battle, the soldier invoked the name of his god for protection.--
lunar	If something is lunar, then it is related to the moon. During a lunar eclipse, Earth's shadow darkens the moon's surface.--
novelty	A novelty is something that is new, original, or strange.Ice cream was a novelty for him since he rarely had any.--
outmoded	If something is outmoded, then it is no longer in fashion or use. Black and white television sets are outmoded.--
personalize	To personalize something means to design it to meet a person's unique needs. He personalized the woman's exercises to give her a better workout.--
pertain	To pertain to something means to be related or connected to it. All o f the lawyer's questions pertained to events around the night of the crime.--
primal	If something is primal, then it is very basic or related to the origin of something. Cooking the food over the camp fire felt like a primal way of making a meal.--
psychiatric	If something is psychiatric, then it is related to mental illness or its treatment. The doctor said the patient might have a psychiatric problem.--
psychiatry	Psychiatry is the study and treatment of mental illness.Studying psychiatry has taught me a lot about mental illness.--
reflex	A reflex is an unconscious action in which a body part responds to an event. There was a reflex when the doctor hit his knee with a rubber hammer.--
seizure	A seizure is sudden illness in which the body loses control and shakes. Bright flashing lights can cause seizures in children.--
session	A session is a meeting at a regular time in order to discuss and solve an issue. Every three months the managers met in a session to discuss regional sales.--
utensil	A utensil is a common tool or container. It seemed that a fork was the wrong utensil for trying to eat the soup.--
adhesive	An adhesive is a substance used for sticking things together. The carpenter used an adhesive to hold the two pieces of wood together.--
adverse	If something is adverse, then it is harmful.Not eating healthy foods can have an adverse effect on your health.--
dependency	A dependency is a strong need for someone or something. The child still has a dependency on her mother.--
dump	To dump something means to throw it away or get rid of it. She dumped the garbage into the trash can.--
eternal	If something is eternal, then it lasts forever.She said that her love for him was eternal.--
fluctuate	To fluctuate means to rise and fall in number or amount. Prices for gasoline have been fluctuating all month.--
fro	If something moves to and fro, it moves backward and forward or side to side. Her long hair went to and fro as she swung on the swing.--
inclusion	Inclusion is the act of including someone or something in a group. Her inclusion into the photo club was well received.--
intermediate	If something is intermediate, then it is in the middle of two levels, places, ortimes. He selected the intermediate ski hill to begin his afternoon of skiing.--
intermittent	If something is intermittent, then it happens in a way that is not constant. It was hard to focus because intermittent noises came from the workers outside.--
mentor	A mentor is a person with experience or knowledge who advises someone. The students each chose a mentor to help them with the experiment.--
phoenix	A phoenix is an imaginary bird that burned to ashes and was reborn.Some believe the phoenix is a symbol for rebirth and a new beginning.--
photosynthesis	Photosynthesis is the process in which plants change sunlight and air.The chemical in plants that makes them green is used in photosynthesis.--
pollen	Pollen is the tiny yellow powder made in the flowers of plants. During the spring, the pollen in the air makes some people become sick.--
regain	To regain something means to get it back. The battery regained its power after being recharged.--
reverse	To reverse means to change to the opposite direction. They reversed their direction after seeing the sign.--
swarm	A swarm is a group of flying insects.A beautiful swarm of butterflies filled the summer sky.--
texture	Texture is the quality of something that can be known by its touch. The texture of her skin was very soft and smooth.--
tickle	To tickle someone is to touch them in a way that causes laughter. The mother tickled the little boy's foot, and he screamed with laughter.--
vibrant	If something is vibrant, then it is bright and full of color. Their new shirts were a vibrant shade of red.--
abolish	thủ tiêu, bãi bỏ--
amend	sửa cho tốt hơn, cải thiện--
aspire	khao khát--
censor	người kiểm duyệt (sách, báo, phim ảnh...)--
charter	hiến chương--
constitution	hiến pháp--
cosmopolitan	gồm người từ nhiều nước, gồm người tứ xứ--
disseminate	gieo rắc; truyền bá--
flatter	tâng bốc, nịnh hót--
infamous	khét tiếng--
lame	què, khập khiễng--
limp	mềm, không chắc--
outburst	cơn [bột phát], trận--
pathological	[thuộc] bệnh, do bệnh--
phenomenal	kỳ lạ, lạ thường--
poll	cuộc bầu cử cuộc bỏ phiếu; sự kiểm phiếu--
remorse	sự hối hận, sự ăn năn--
secrecy	sự giữ bí mật, sự kín đáo--
tackle	(hàng hải) dây dợ (để kéo buồm)--
trance	sự nhập định, sự xuất thần--
coward	kẻ nhát gan, kẻ nhút nhát--
delete	xóa, gạch bỏ--
firsthand	tận mắt--
earnest	nghiêm trang--
ethnic	dân tộc--
exclude	loại trừ--
fluent	thông thạo--
imperial	hoàng gia--
inclusive	bao gồm--
legislature	cơ quan lập pháp--
linguistic	[thuộc] ngôn ngữ học--
monolingual	chỉ dùng một ngôn ngữ, đơn ngữ--
nationality	quốc tịch--
patriot	người yêu nước--
prosecute	truy tố--
racial	[đặc trưng cho] chủng tộc;[do] chủng tộc--
solemn	nghiêm nghị--
solidarity	sự đoàn kết; tình đoàn kết--
tact	sự tế nhị, sự khéo xử--
undermine	xói mòn chân--
allocate	phân, cấp--
appetizing	làm cho ăn ngon miệng, ngon lành--
blizzard	trận bão tuyết dữ dội--
cavity	lỗ hổng (như ở chỗ sâu răng...) ổ khoang--
clockwise	theo chiều kim đồng hồ--
concentric	đồng tâm--
courtesy	hành động lịch sự; lời nói lịch sự--
crisp	khoai tây cắt mỏng ràn giòn--
discord	sự bất hòa; mối bất hóa--
frigid	tủ ướp lạnh--
generate	tạo ra, phát ra--
glacial	(địa lý) [thuộc] thời kỳ băng hà; do băng hà--
interchange	đổi chỗ, hoán đổi--
locker	tủ (để quần áo ở bể bơi...)--
multicultural	thuộc nhiều lãnh vực văn hoá khác nhau--
omission	sự bỏ sót; điều bỏ sót--
oversee	giám sát--
pierce	chọc thủng, xuyên qua; khoét, dùi--
replicate	sao chép lại; mô phỏng--
wavy	[có] hình làn sóng--
abide	(dùng với can, could trong câu phủ định hay câu hỏi) chịu đựng--
conversion	sự đổi, sự chuyển đổi--
cram	nhồi, nhét, tọng--
defer	hoãn--
export	sự xuất khẩu; ngành xuất khẩu--
fume	khói; hơi--
habitual	thường lệ, quen thuộc--
justify	bào chữa, biện bạch--
output	công suất; năng lượng (do một máy phát sản ra)--
overpopulation	dân số quá mức--
patent	bằng sáng chế--
penalize	xử phạt--
petroleum	xăng dầu--
prototype	nguyên mẫu--
scrap	sắt vụn--
sector	ngành--
subscribe	subscribe--
subsist	đăng kí--
suspend	đình chỉ--
synthesis	tổng hợp--
acrobat	diễn viên nhào lộn (xiếc)--
advocacy	sự ủng hộ--
communal	công, chung--
fluid	lỏng--
harmonize	[làm cho] hài hòa--
industrious	cần cù, siêng năng--
inventive	phát minh, sáng chế--
judicial	[thuộc] tòa án;[thuộc] quan tòa;[thuộc] tư pháp--
Mandarin	tiếng Phổ thông Trung Quốc, tiếng Quan thoại--
metropolitan	[thuộc] thủ đô; ở thủ đô--
mimic	giống hệt--
misguided	bị lầm lạc, bị sai lầm (trong suy nghĩ)--
rehearse	diễn tập (vở kịch...)--
scorn	sự khinh bỉ, sự khinh miệt--
sensory	[thuôc] giác quan--
staple	ghim kẹp (để đóng một số tờ giấy lại với nhau)--
statute	đạo luật, điều lệ, quy chế--
veteran	người kỳ cựu--
villain	kẻ hung ác, tên côn đồ--
vine	cây nho, cây leo; cây bò--
constrain	cưỡng ép, ép buộc, ép--
depot	kho chứa; kho hàng; kho quân khu, (từ Mỹ) ga (xe lửa), bến (xe buýt)--
emulate	thi đua--
forefinger	ngón tay trỏ--
guts	Ruột--
inherent	gắn liền với, vốn có--
intimidate	hăm dọa--
janitor	(từ Mỹ janitor) người [được giao] trông nom (một ngôi nhà, một công trình kiến trúc)--
moist	ẩm, ẩm ướt--
nope	không--
prod	chọc, đâm, thúc--
ransom	sự chuộc (người bị bắt cóc)--
restrain	kiềm chế, kìm, nén, dằn lại--
saliva	nước bọt--
spit	nhổ ra; phun ra--
sprint	chạy nướt rút--
stunt	trò [cốt để] gây sự chú ý--
tolerant	(+ off, towards) khoan dung; tha thứ--
vampire	ma cà rồng--
yawn	há miệng, há hốc ra (đồ vật)--
analogy	sự giống nhau, sự tương tự--
ancestry	dòng họ, tông môn--
archer	cung thủ--
conspiracy	sự đồng mưu; âm mưu--
deputy	người được ủy quyền, người thay quyền, đại diện--
earl	bá tước (ở Anh)--
fragrant	fragrant--
funnel	cái phễu, ống khói (tàu thủy...)--
hereditary	di truyền, cha truyền con nối--
hymn	bài thánh ca--
invert	đảo ngược--
prey	con mồi--
procession	đoàn diễu hành; đám rước--
prophet	nhà tiên tri; người tiên đoán--
sarcastic	châm chọc--
seasoning	gia vị--
sodium	natri--
tyranny	sự bạo ngược--
tyrant	kẻ bạo ngược--
vinegar	giấm--
adjoining	gần kề, kế bên, tiếp giáp, bên cạnh, sát nách--
allege	viện lẽ, viện ra--
arch	vòm cầu, nhịp cầu--
assemble	tụ tập, tập hợp--
casualty	người thương vong; nạn nhân--
erect	người thương vong; nạn nhân--
foul	hôi, bẩn--
hectare	hécta (100 a)--
heighten	nâng cao, tăng thêm--
hospitality	lòng mến khách--
mansion	ngôi nhà lớn, khu chung cư--
outnumber	đông hơn--
overjoyed	vui mừng khôn xiết--
pasture	đồng cỏ; bãi cỏ--
petition	kiến nghị--
renovate	xây mới lại (ngôi nhà cũ...), tân trang--
revise	xét lại, xem lại, duyệt lại--
slab	phiến, tấm--
terrace	đất bậc thang, ruộng bậc thang (ở sườn đồi...)--
turf	lớp đất mặt (đầy rễ cỏ); tảng đất mặt có cỏ--
analogous	tương tự--
binoculars	ống nhòm--
bulk	kích cỡ lớn--
comprise	bao gồm, gồm có--
depict	tả, mô tả--
dual	hai, lưỡng, đôi--
Fahrenheit	[theo thang nhiệt] Fahrenheit--
fulfill	thực hiện, hoàn thành, làm trọn--
grove	lùm cây, bãi cây--
ore	quặng--
outback	vùng nội địa xa xôi hẻo lánh--
outweigh	nặng hơn, trội hơn (về giá trị, tầm quan trọng)--
paradox	điều ngược đời; nghịch lý; hình tượng nghịch lý (trong khi nói, khi viết văn)--
pier	cầu tàu, trụ cầu--
shortcut	phím rút gọn, phím tắt--
tariff	thuế suất hải quan--
thermometer	nhiệt kế--
tilt	[làm cho] nghiêng--
vice versa  ngược lại--
whereabouts	ở chỗ nào; gần chỗ nào (dùng khi không cần một câu trả lời thật chính xác)--
amber	màu vàng nâu hổ phách--
charcoal	than củi, chì than (để vẽ)--
columnist	nhà báo chuyên mục--
courteous	lịch sự, nhã nhặn--
credentials	giấy ủy nhiệm; thư ủy nhiệm--
crickets	con dế mèn--
delta	châu thổ [Nile]--
detergent	chất tẩy--
euphemism	lời nói trại, uyển ngữ--
expire	hết hạn--
granite	khoáng chất--
gravel	rải sỏi--
haunt	ám ảnh--
liberal	rộng rãi, bao dung--
maze	mớ rối rắm, mê cung--
moss	rêu--
peck	mổ (bằng mỏ)--
pebble	đá cuội--
reservoir	bể chứa nước, hồ chứa nước (cho một vùng)--
streak	vệt, sọc--
